# CobMerge

A fixed-format COBOL app that merges pre-defined files.

- Author: Ethan Kletschke
- Version: `1.0.0`
- Developed and Tested On: Windows 11
- Targeted Platform(s): Windows 10 and above
- License: MIT
- Project Metadata File: [`project.yaml`](./meta/project.yaml)

---

- [CobMerge](#cobmerge)
  - [Using the app](#using-the-app)
  - [Note on CSV Data Used by the Program](#note-on-csv-data-used-by-the-program)
    - [Data Format](#data-format)

---

## Using the app

### How it Works

This program sorts the user's input `.csv` files (as per COBOL's merging
requirements), then merges them into a new `Output.csv` file.

### Running CobMerge

#### Via the GitHub Release

All you have to do is run the `.exe` in the compressed folder provided, and
follow the prompts. Note that the CSV data files will be overwritten when
sorted.

#### Compiling from Source

If you have `cobc` and GnuCOBOL's runtime on your system, you can
clone the app and compile it from source.

This is done by:

1. Cloning the app with `git clone`
2. Navigating into the cloned project folder
3. Navigating into `scripts`
4. Running `build.cmd`

For Linux users, run the following in the project root folder:

```bash
cobc -I ./src -x ./src/**.cbl -o ./bin/CobMerge  -w -q
./bin/CobMerge
```

**NOTE**: The app has NOT been tested on Linux. Proceed with caution and make
a GitHub issue for me to fix whatever the problem is.

## Note on CSV Data Used by the Program

The repo's provided `.csv` data may include duplicate user IDs but with
different data. This is due to how I generated the data (it is
randomly generated by a Visual Studio Code extension, specifically
`jrebocho.vscode-random`).

If you want to use your own data with my program, follow the guidelines
specified below:

### Data Format

The format of the CSV data has to be as follows, _**without headers**_:

1. User Number (3 digits, including leading zeros)
2. User ID (6-character alphanumeric string, with letters and/or digits)
3. A 25-character user name and surname
